July 30th, 1981, in Jacksonville, Texas,
interviewing Major General Buckner as Terry
Anderson.
And remember, we can take off and edit this tape, so
just let's be as informal as possible. This is an
interview with Major General Buckner. Today is
the 30th of July, 1981. This is Terry Anderson. We
want to start out by learning something about your
background, sir. Could you tell us where and when
you were born? I was born on January 11, 1919, in
Cleburne, Texas. Could you tell us about your
parents? My father was a city engineer, and my
mother was the daughter of a
house building contractor. Did your father have a
formal education for engineering, or did he just
pick it up as a trade? No, he was a graduate of the
Texas A&M class in 1912. Really? There's a watch
fob. Oh, yes, it is. A&M College of Texas, 1912.
That's great. And he was very proud of the fact that
he went all the way through at Texas A&M and he
remained a private for four years. He did. But he
worked his way through. He scoped the furnishings
at night and worked his way through the whole
thing. That's fantastic. And then did he set up
this company? No, he had his own company and
after he was city engineer in about 1921, He
decided to get into business for himself, and he
started bidding highway jobs. The first one he had
was in Henderson, Texas. And then from there, he
went down there in the Austin, San Antonio area and
worked on the highways down there. We ended up in
Austin. Austin's where I started the school. And
from there we moved to Navasota. It was very
interesting because I started out in an
experimental school there in Austin. My sister
was there as well. She was a year ahead of me. And at
the end of the, I guess I was in the second grade, I
started the school at midterm when I was six years
old, before I was six years old. And it was very
interesting because when I got to Navasota they
put me back half a grade because I hadn't had enough
math. They put my sister forward a crate because
this experimental school was so much more
advanced. I noticed last night when I was jogging
through the area that there was a Buckner part of
your family. That's my uncle, yes. Well, that part
of it came later. While we were at Navasota, my
father was injured in an accident and crushed his
leg. hip and he was in an automobile accident and he
had to go to the hospital in Houston and he asked his
younger brother, Robert, to come over there and
watch Eric do the job for him.
He came over there to help and Eric, while he went
back, Got in the cotton gin business and worked
sawmill and a few other things. And later on, my
dad, after we moved from Navasota, we moved to
Cleaver and he never moved from there again.
That's where we stayed until he died. But R.C.
Robert, he invited him to come in partnership with
him and he did. And in about 1929 or 30,
And my dad liked to do work all over the state of
Texas. And he actually completed jobs in 250 of the
254 counties in the state of Texas. And his brother
lived here in, not here in Jacksonville, he
actually lived in Sackle, which is down the road
from here, not very far. And they continued as
Buckner Brothers for three or four years.
Robert R.C. decided that he wanted to get married,
and he didn't want to do all that traveling. So they
split up, and the company here was R.C. Buckner
until 1956, and then it became Buckner
Construction Company. And my father was John F.
Buckner and later John F. Buckner's son. He took
all his sons in. The business there, the war was
over except for me. Well, he offered me the
opportunity. I stayed in the Air Force. And my
youngest brother is still running that company,
although the name of it now is Dan Buckner
Incorporated in Cleveland. In the meantime, R.C.
Buckner became Buckner Construction Company. He
became Buckner and Moore, and they split up. He was
a cousin of mine, by the way. Right next door, M.G.
Moore. His son, incidentally, went to M.G. Moore.
And... Robert R.C. decided he wanted to get out of
the business, and he knew that I was getting ready
to retire from the service, and he offered me the
opportunity to buy into the business. And that's
what I did in 1971. Okay, let's go back and let's
talk about your mother. Tell me about her. We
haven't mentioned her. Well, actually, she was
born in Russ, Texas. As I said, my grandfather was a
house builder. He built houses. Then they went
back to Cleveland. And then she went to high school
there, and she went to the University of Texas, and
she taught school
for a year or two. I guess that's where they met, in
Cleveland. She never did go to college. Oh, she
went to the University of Texas. Oh, I thought you
said she went to high school, then she started
teaching school. No, she went to the University of
Texas. Okay, so both your parents then had
degrees. No, she didn't get a degree. She got her
teacher's certificate a couple of years. Sure.
She taught school, and then after she got married,
she raised five children. What type of person was
she? Can you sort of describe her character? Yes,
she was very religious and very... What religion?
Baptist. Okay. And my father was a very staunch
Baptist,
too. He was chairman of the Lord of Deacons for a
number of years, in charge of the building
committee.
A staunch supporter. Also a staunch supporter of
Boy Scouts. He was on the circle team of council.
And my mother was very active in... the women's
club activities that they had in the town. She
liked to garden and grow flowers. She was a very
sweet and understanding person. There were a lot
of people that took advantage of her for that
reason. She enjoyed other people. Sounds like
they were both involved in community activities.
Much so. Except my father was on the road pretty
deep. He had jobs everywhere. He traveled a lot.
He'd get up at 4 o'clock in the morning. We wouldn't
see him until evening or maybe only on Sunday. He
was always there on Sunday. I missed out.
Can you tell me, can you sort of describe your type
of person, the character of your father?
Well, I'd have to say that he was, if you ever called
anybody straight arrow, that's what he was. His
word was
bond, and he wouldn't intentionally
beat anybody out of anyone.
He was very, very meticulous
about
it, about human relationships. He had a great
strength of character. He was a strong-willed
man. Yes, very strong-willed man. He didn't
drink, he didn't smoke, he didn't swear. He was a
straight arrow. Was he tough?
Or was he understanding? I imagine some people
would call him tough, but he did have a very good
sense of understanding, a feeling of
understanding. It sounds like religion was
important in your upbringing. Is that true?
That's true. Sunday school and church every
Sunday.
Usually twice on Sunday. Church twice on Sunday.
In the morning and in the evening too. And
sometimes on Wednesday evening. Who is the
authority in the household? My father. All of
them. My mother was left with a lot of things to do
because he was gone for sure. And you had five,
there were five children in the family, so you had
four siblings. Yeah. How'd you get along with
them? Tell me, what happened to them? I mean, did
they also become leaders like you did? Well, my
sister married a dentist. She lives in Cleveland.
She was the oldest. My next older brother was in the
Marines during the war. He was a tank battalion
commander.
And the next brother was in the Marines. He was a
pilot for the B-25s. And the youngest one was in the
Navy. He just got in as the war ended,
I think. He was just a sailor on a ship. My sister
graduated from Baylor. And my next oldest brother
graduated from the University of Texas, and the
other two
graduated from
Texas A&M after the war. So it started before, but
then ended up after finishing up. If religion was a
strong influence, why didn't all the children go
to bail? My dad had one prerequisite. He sent us to
school. Everybody had to have at
least two years of military
time. I don't know that any of the children were
quite as
religious as your parents. We do go to church. What
happened to your brothers? Are they still in the
engineering business? No, the youngest one is the
only one still alive. The other two both contacted
me. some kind of fungus or something to deal with
asthma out in Southwest Pacific during World War
II, and they had trouble breathing.
And the next to the youngest, Arthur, had a worse
case, and he was allergic to his own infection, and
he moved to Well, he came back after the war and he
started working and he had a job out in the Alpine,
which is a higher level and he seemed to do better,
but it didn't get better, enough better, so he
moved to Arizona. Went to work. He got a graduate
degree from the University of Arizona. He worked
for the state for a while, and then he got out on his
own selling water systems. He was selling and
installing water systems. He's also an engineer?
Yes, he was a civil engineer graduate. But he
died...
The year before last. And my next oldest brother,
Erwin. He died
when he was 45
years old in 1960.
He had a cardiac arrest. He was a business
administration lady. He was in the business with
my father. Three brothers were there for a while,
and finally the one brother
had left in Arizona, and the other two were in, and
were my father. Now, for... people in your period,
your generation. It was not that typical for young
people to go to college, but not only did your
parents both attend college, but all the kids went
to college. Wow. Why was that? We were all
motivated and oriented in that direction. Your
parents continually told you that someday you're
going to college? There was never any other future
in mind except going to college. My father that put
himself through college, and he was that way from
the time he was born. He knew he wanted to go to
college, and he did it. And that's the same, I guess
he, motivated us in the same direction.
Now you've had a very successful career, rising to
gentleship, and I was wondering in what ways do you
think that your parents are responsible for that?
Well, I guess my father was the most responsible
because he insisted on the military training. I
went to John Tarleton. I got indoctrinated into
the military there, so I decided that I wanted to
make a career. It was a very forceful Major
Bender, who was a colonel during World War II that
killed a beach in Normandy. He was a character.
was a great influence
on my children. I liked the life that he led, and I
liked him. I liked his family, and I enjoyed the
military. He inspired them. Yes, he did. As a
matter of fact, he talked me into taking CMTC in
1938. And I was there on the book of formation as
soon as I was 21. And there he introduced me to
recent graduates from West Point. And they taught
me how to go into West Point. Ostensibly,
Lieutenant Meyer, who was an
Army football player, found out that I was an
all-Congress football player in Virginia
College. He was going to get me an appointment in
West Point, Pennsylvania. At the meantime, he
told me to go for my own challenge, which I did. I
took the entrance exam. I made the highest grade of
the people who were taking it. He had two
appointments, I believe, one to the Naval Academy
and one to the Military Academy. So I chose to go to
the Military Academy. That's where I really
wanted to go. Why did you decide on the Army and then
the Air Force instead of the Navy? Well, I was going
to the Army because I wanted to be in the infantry.
At that time, I didn't know anything about the Air
Force. The connection I had with the Air Force, I
had marched with the Army. Well,
we had a
crack platoon that marched in the Battle of
Flowers Parade in San Antonio. We got to go out to, I
believe it was either Brooks or Kelly Field, and we
got to crawl over some airplanes, and that was my
first association with airplanes. I saw that they
did a fly-by there, too. Were you pretty
impressed? I was very impressed, but I didn't know
whether I had the proclivity that it took me an
80-year-old. I mean, I really, as I look back now, I
wasn't that enthusiastic about it. I thought it
was great, but I was in the emphasis. Let's go back
to your education, though. You were telling me
about Austin. What about your junior high and your
high school? Well, we moved to, we moved to Cuba
from, uh, Minnesota to Cleveland.
And, uh, we were there, you know, I think I was
in the I
suppose I was in the second grade. And I went to the
third and the fourth and the fifth grade to a
elementary school. And then we moved to another
area of the city.
And
I
went to what was called the junior high, because it
had the elementary grades plus the junior high all
at once, just across the street. I got a couple
blocks from the high school. I finished junior
high and went right into high school. What were
your favorite subjects? I suppose, man.
Did you excel at that?
Yes,
I made new friends. After I found out that you had to
behave, after being switched a few times to sit on
the steps during recess and those types of
disciplines, I learned that My dad promised me a
bicycle if I'd get on the honor roll three months in
a row. And the main thing I had to overcome was to be
into Portland,
which I did. And I got a bicycle. You said that you
were a footballer? Yes, I started football when
I was in Jan Long's elementary school in fifth
grade. I played in the sixth grade and I was on the
junior high team. I played four years in high
school. What position? Guard. Guard?
Must have been a tiger, you know. You don't look
like you're big enough for a guard. Well, in those
days, they had smaller people. I weighed more than
a pound. In high school, I weighed 170 pounds. I was
heavier than 175 pounds.
My goodness. That's why I played guitar all the
time. Were you in other activities in school? Yes.
Oh, I was
in a music memory contest. I was
in a play. We didn't have too many activities. We
were so poor, we didn't even have an annual. Right.
Would you consider yourself a leader in high
school, and I was interested when? When generals
start assuming leadership roles, when do you
think you did? Was it in high school? Yes, it was in
high school. I was captain
of the football team and captain of the basketball
team. Did you like that role? Yes. Then I was
co-captain in junior college. Would you consider
yourself popular in high school? Well, I don't
think,
I don't remember anything. I was too shy, and I
didn't date much. I was popular with the boys, but
that way with the girls I wasn't particularly
popular. Did you have a lot of friends? Yes, I did.
Why do you think that they picked you for the
captain of these
two teams? Well, it's
hard to say. But it wasn't because I was very
articulate, because I wasn't. I never was an
articulate person of equations. I guess
they looked to me because I was able to make good
grades and I knew all the plays and I helped
them in the game. Now this, of course, is right
during the Great Depression. I was wondering at
the Depression, a pathetic economic situation on
the country in the mid-1930s had any impact on your
upbringing and your family? Well, nobody had any
money.
Everybody
was in the same boat, but no one had fun. Every once
in a while, I guess, I'd get a nickel to get an ice
cream cone. I was a small kid. When I was a small kid,
I came out here to East Texas and worked on my
grandfather's farm. And I got interested in
farming, and I decided I wanted a cow. I started
milking cows and my father bought a cow when I was
about to third or fourth grade. Later on he added
another one, so I met with gals twice a day until I
got out of high school. My brother has cursed me
ever since. He goes, I went to my next older brother
after I left, and after he left I went to the next
one, and after he left I came to the last one, and the
last one sort of cried him up. And he was happy it did
dry
up. Did the depression have any effect on your
father's business? Oh yeah. I think he went broke.
At least he ran out of money. He had to move in with my
grandmother in Cleveland. But he started all over
again. He kept on going. So if he was broke, in other
words, he was unemployed for a while? No, he wasn't
employed. He just didn't have a job. Oh, you mean he
didn't, no one, in other words, no one hired his
construction services? Well, it wasn't a
question of that. When you run out of money and you
have to sell all of your equipment, well, he had to
sell all of his equipment after the job was over. He
got injured. He got all this trouble. I don't know
how mad all people was financially, but I know that
we didn't have any money. Did you have enough food
on the table? Oh yes, we raised a lot of food. And of
course I was milking the cow. things got better. He
started making money, I suppose. The
construction business would have a bad job,
especially back then when you only had one job at a
time. You had to move your mules and everything
with you, but he had to sell all his mules and all his
equipment. And it may have been a good thing
because they started mechanizing everything
after that, but we never had mules again.
When you graduated from high school, had you
already made up your mind what you wanted to be? Did
you have firm ideas? I thought I wanted to be a
mechanical engineer. When I left high school,
that's what I took at Tarleton and A&M. At A&M, I
decided I wanted to get a
degree in mechanical and civil engineering, and
then go to MIT and get a master's in mechanical
engineering. That was my goal. I thought it would
change my mind at Tarleton, and I wanted to go
there. Why? Why MIT? Well, that was just the
reputation they had. In my mind, it was in my mind as
a good place to go to get a master's degree. It's my
dad's name, and it must be someone to be a part of his
thing. But that was my, that was what I had outlined
when I said I would go. During the Depression, did
Your father support the New Deal and Franklin
Roosevelt? Do you remember? I haven't the
slightest idea. Was he in any way political? Not
that I know of. Did he vote? Oh, yes, he voted. Who
did he usually vote, Democrat or Republican, or
conservative or liberal? I don't know.
Democrats. I know, but I mean, did he vote for
liberal Democrats or ones that supported? I don't
think we had any. in Texas,
they may have
been. But the ones that we had on a national level, I
know, the guy that appointed me to the military, he
was an old-time conservative. Are
there local legislators, state legislators? I
don't know too much about politics. When did you
start paying attention to politics? After I got
the right
to vote, let's
see, up until 19,
I don't know what year, I don't remember what year
it was, criminals and regular army people could
not vote for the state of Texas. I was a regular army
. And when
you finally did get the franchise, who did, what
party, or what, did you vote, liberal, moderate,
or conservative, independent? Conservative.
Mostly Republican. And are you a member of a
political party now, or are you just? I call myself
independent. I support a lot of Republicans, but I
support a lot of Democrats, too. We have a state
senator here, Peyton McKnight, I strongly
support. He's a Democrat. I support Governor
Reagan, President Reagan, and I support him. I'm
supporting all these programs too. Now, why'd you
decide on Tarleton? Why'd you immediately go up to
Tarleton instead of going to A&M? Well,
I was thinking about the two years of military. And
also, I thought I had a better chance to play
football there than I did at that
time. And you made the $10,000.
Yes. I was not given a scholarship then. I was just a
walk-on. But I went over early and started to
practice. Finally got some of the big boys hurt. It
allowed me to have a chance to show what I could do.
The coach of the team was Chuck Saunders, the guard
from S.E.U. He helped me a lot. He was really good.
He taught me a lot. And then you stayed there for one
year, is that not correct? Two years. Did you go to
A&M for one year, or did you go directly from? I went
two years to Tarleton,
then I went to A&M, and while I was at A&M, I took the
entrance. So you went to A&M for one year, which
would have been your junior year? After your two
years at Tarleton. Why did you decide on A&M, and
why didn't you try to transfer into MIT or some
other engineering school? Well, I'd already
picked A&M. I was going to A&M. Why? Well, I had a lot
of friends that were going there, too, and I had
already decided that's where I wanted to go. I was
going to MIT for Masters. Okay. Can you describe
the accommodations when you arrived? Where'd you
stay at, Andrew? I stayed in Goodwin Hall in a
triple-decker bunk. A triple-decker? I had two of
my friends from Tarleton there with me, and we were
junior fish, which is not a very savory position
and enjoy at that time. It may be better now, but it
was horrible then. You had a heavy course load and
you did everything a freshman did. Sure. What
about employment? Did you work while you
were at A&M? No. How were you supported? How could
you afford to pay for it? My father My father sent
me. So by that time you had your father's business
had been covered enough so he- Oh yeah. It had been
covered in early 30's. Now, what corps outfit were
you assigned? I was an A company
infantry. Did you enjoy being in the corps? Yes, I
did. What were some of the things that you enjoyed
about it? Well, I enjoyed the
friendship and the association
with the individuals. The spirit permeated the
whole mountain. We thought we were the best.
Nobody could tell the difference. Were there any
things that you disliked about being in the court?
Well, I didn't like being a freshman.
In other words, you didn't like servicing the, uh,
ugliness of the nightly seniors, some of them who
were younger than I was. Sure. What about hazing? I
had all I wanted. but I had had a year of it at
Tarleton.
Can you compare the hazing of Ann and Tarleton?
About the same, except we didn't have the...
There wasn't as much of the room
cleaning. Was there as much as we didn't have? We
only had one dormitory there, and it was a brand new
one. I went
in when I was a freshman.
I lived in a rooming house. I was the only one who
lived in that rooming house. Then when I went into
the dormitory, everything was worked out from
there. By the time we got to the upperclassmen, we
had a few things going. Everybody had to be in the
military there. Sure. No question about it. Did
they use the board as much at Tarleton as they did at
A&M? A physical hazing. Well, they used the Sam
Brown belt both places.
I don't know if you're familiar with the Sam Brown
belt. No, I'm not. Tell me about the belt. and they
had holes in it and it'll make it really tear you up
in the rear, turn you purple, blue, orange, green,
any color you wanted. Let's compare the type of
hazing at A&M and West Point.
It was very similar, except there was no physical
hazing.
They weren't allowed to touch you at West Point.
They did not beat you. That's not to say there
couldn't be rifle exercises until you passed out.
And did they do that? Oh, yeah. Pushing the piece
and things like that? Yeah. Plenty of similarity.
The toughest warning at West Point was the needles
that you had to sit at attention. Keep
your eyes on the blood, not look up. Keep your
posture in a very stiff, erect position. It's not
very... I think they've cut that out now, so they
allow me to be made to sit up. So, in
other words, the hazing at A&M and at West Point
were similar in the mental hazing. Same types of
demands? Well, there are even more demands
that West Palm would say, insofar as the mental
is concerned, because you haven't memorized a
bunch of stories. They can call on you at any time to
recite them, and if you need more of them, they can
set up. They might allow you a few seconds, a few
minutes to eat, and that would be all. and at A&M the
difference was that we had the physical and there
was no physical hazing at West Point.
What was your opinion of hazing both at A&M and then
at West Point? I thought it had a place
and a lot of it was good. And what was it? Tell me
about the place that it is. Well, they had what they
called clothing formations, and you'd have to run
upstairs and change your clothes and get back and
do the last one
when you got in trouble. And this is at
Westmoreland? Yeah. And it taught you to change
clothes in a hurry and get them right, because if
you went down there wrong, you had to go back and it
ended up with lots of problems. And I really had
no problem with it because I'd been through what
I'd had to talk and what I'd had to answer. And I had
no trouble memorizing the stuff. I had no trouble
in the formations I'd ever had to be in, the violent
stuff. Some of them I had to go through because we
had troubles. What do you mean violent? Well...
The... more stressful situations maybe violent
is too strong a word more stressful situations
because what they were doing is trying to create a
stress situation which occurs in all military
under stress and try to put you in a stress
situation and get you so that you know how to react
under a stress situation and
i think that's good it's not overdone and it also
teach you attention to
detail, and teach you to take care of your parents,
and if they found a spot on you, boy, you'd get on for
that, or something like that. It's a good mental
training. What about the, in other words, you're
saying that hazing teaches you discipline.
That's right. What about,
this question, in what way do you think being in the
Corps, both at Tarleton and A&M, helped you at West
Point and later in your career? Well, I knew, I
would say this, that I knew close order drill as
well as the ones that were trying to teach it to me up
there. It was not better because I had more of it
than they had.
Actually, I didn't have any, and also I didn't have
any new subjects there for the first three years
except for French, which I hadn't
had before. So it was relatively easy for me, and I
was coaching my classmates who were having
problems. So in other words, you had a good
preparation here in Texas before? Yes, sir.
before you went to West Point. I said, well, I think
it's a waste of time. They don't do that anymore.
They give people credit, and they take other
courses. They have a curriculum now that's not so
high-balanced. Everybody had to take the same
thing. That's what it was when I went there.
Everybody had to take the same thing. In other
words, when you went to West Point, the credits
that you took at A&M didn't transfer? It meant
nothing. No kidding. Absolutely nothing. Well,
were you a little irritated by that? Well, not
really. It didn't make any difference. It didn't
take any more. I was going to have to be there.
I don't think I read the
interview. What about the quality of military
training at A&M versus military training at West
Point?
Well,
insofar as, as I said, close artillery and things
like that, A&M is better. But in the other
subjects, your military training at A&M didn't go
as deep or cover as many subjects because you
covered only the infantry. I was in the infantry.
Up there we covered the whole gamut. We studied
every one of the services, each individual
service.
I didn't go to the field training at A&M. I went to
the CMTC, which is, I guess, similar. We had field
training in the summer, which was a lot more
realistic training . What about the engineering
courses that you took? As I said, the first three
years, I didn't have engineering courses, and
it's almost the same.
Which one did you enjoy more?
Well, you've got to put that in perspective. I
enjoyed them both. But did you enjoy the one you
finished most? Sure. There was no question about
that. The year you enjoy most is the senior year,
and I never had a senior year. Oh, that's true. At
A&M, I had a good year, but it left some things to be
desired in terms of freedom, relationships.
Oh, would you explain? Well, if you're a junior
fish, you're doing nothing. It's not a great deal
of plagiarism. You get nothing for a year. Well, it
really wasn't nothing. You're sort of a
second-class citizen. Now, people at A&M, many of
the former students think that there's something
special or unique about A&M. Sometimes they
mention spirit. They just say it's more than an
institution. Do you think that? Yes, I agree with
that. You agree with that? Yeah. It's the same at
West Point. It's the same at West Point. Yes, it is.
Okay. Now, there's a spree decor, of course, at
West Point.